OMP Studio is a desktop cockpit
for the Oh My Pi coding-agent
harness. First, the key point: it
drives a real coding agent, runs
a real shell, and embeds a
real browser, all inside one Electron
window. It is pre-1.0, built by
one author, and it ships for
macOS, Linux, and Windows.
The app gives you a single
window to watch an agent work.
You see its transcript, its tool
calls, its reasoning, and its plan,
as they happen. You can steer
the agent mid-turn, approve tool calls,
and drill into subagents. You can
also open a terminal and a
browser right beside the chat, so
the agent's world and your own
share the same desk.
It is built on Electron, electron-vite,
and React 18, all in TypeScript.
The numbers tell the story: about
forty-five thousand lines of source across
two hundred twenty-seven files, one hundred
forty-five commits, and one author, in
under three weeks. The renderer is
React-heavy, so TSX dominates the line
count.
OMP Studio uses Electron's three-process model,
and the boundary is load-bearing. The
main process has full host access:
filesystem, subprocesses, the OS keychain. The
preload is an isolated CommonJS bridge
that publishes one curated API. The
renderer is a sandboxed React app
that reaches the host only through
that typed surface, called OmpApi.
The chat talks to the omp
harness over an RPC bridge. The
main process spawns omp as a
child, writes newline-delimited JSON commands to
its stdin, and reads JSONL frames
from stdout. A pure session reducer
turns those frames into render state,
and each frame is routed to
the right session slice. The renderer
never spawns anything itself.
The transcript is a virtualized list
of content blocks: text, thinking, tool
calls, and images. Long threads get
a MessageScroller rail, a column of
tick marks on the right edge
for jumping through the conversation. The
active tick tracks the topmost visible
message, and clicks go through Virtuoso's
index scroller, because virtualization means the
target row may not be mounted.
The shell supports up to eight
split panes. Each pane can hold
a chat, a file view, or
a subagent drill-in, and you can
drag and dock them. A hot-and-cold
split keeps pane ids cold in
the store, while each transcript pane
subscribes to its own live session
slice. The left sidebar anchors on
the open worktree and branch.
Six read-only panels surface the agent's
world: skills, MCP servers, agents, models
and providers, GitHub, and Linear. Each
is a main-process reader that degrades
gracefully to empty when its source
is missing. That graceful degradation is
why the app, the unit tests,
and the e2e smoke all run
without the omp harness or gh
installed.
The trust model is the point.
The renderer never touches the host
directly and never loads remote content.
The two capabilities that touch untrusted
content, the terminal and the embedded
browser, are isolated in their own
sandboxed contexts and off by default.
The terminal runs a real shell
at user privilege, but the agent
never drives it. The browser loads
remote pages in a separate view
with no IPC bridge.
Two recent tools harden the workflow.
The demo recorder, npm run demo,
launches the built app against hermetic
fixtures and stitches an mp4 with
ffmpeg, so a pull request can
attach proof of a UI behavior.
The sync-check script is a read-only
drift radar: it flags stale branches,
missing worktrees, and open pull request
state, and it only ever prints
suggestions.
The gates are deliberate. Biome handles
lint and format in one tool.
tsc runs two typecheck projects split
along the process boundary. Vitest covers
the renderer, bun test covers node-side
logic and the pure reducer, and
Playwright runs the e2e smoke against
the built app. A release is
one command plus a tag push,
and CI cuts the GitHub Release
with notes pulled from the changelog.
You can remember OMP Studio as
a typed, sandboxed Electron app that
turns the omp harness into a
desk you can actually sit at.
It is young, fast-moving, and already
a full interactive cockpit: a virtualized
chat, a real terminal, a sandboxed
browser, and six read-only panels, all
behind one locked-down renderer.